I'm an astronaut.
I flew on the space shuttle twice,
and I lived on the International
Space Station for almost six months.
People often ask me the same question,
which is, "What's it like in space?"
as if it was a secret.
Space belongs to all of us,
and I'd like to help you understand why
it's a place that is magic for all of us.
The day after my 50th birthday,
I climbed aboard a Russian capsule,
in Russia,
and launched into space.
Launching is the most
dangerous thing that we do,
and it's also the most thrilling.
Three, two, one ... liftoff!
I felt every single bit of the controlled
fury of those rocket engines
as they blasted us off the Earth.
We went faster and faster and faster,
until, after eight and a half minutes,
on purpose, those engines stop --
kabunk! --
and we are weightless.
And the mission and the magic begin.
Dmitry and Paolo and I
are circling the Earth
in our tiny spacecraft,
approaching the space station carefully.
It's an intricate dance
at 17,500 miles an hour
between our capsule,
the size of a Smart Car,
and the space station,
the size of a football field.
We arrive when those two craft dock
with a gentle thunk.
We open the hatches,
have sloppy zero-G hugs with each other,
and now we're six.
We're a space family, an instant family.
My favorite part about living up there
was the flying.
I loved it.
It was like being Peter Pan.
It's not about floating.
Just the touch of a finger
can actually push you across
the entire space station,
and then you sort of
tuck in with your toes.
One of my favorite things
was drifting silently
through the space station,
which was humming along at night.
I wondered sometimes
if it knew I was there,
just silent.
But sharing the wonder
of that with the crew
was also part of what was important to me.
A typical day in space
starts with the perfect commute.
I wake up, cruise down the lab
and say hello to the best
morning view ever.
It's a really fast commute,
only 30 seconds,
and we never get tired
of looking out that window.
I think it reminds us that we're
actually still very close to Earth.
Our crew was the second ever
to use the Canadian robotic arm
to capture a supply ship
the size of a school bus
containing about a dozen
different experiments
and the only chocolate that we would see
for the next four months.
Now, chocolate aside,
every single one of those experiments
enables yet one more
scientific question answered
that we can't do down here on Earth.
And so, it's like a different lens,
allowing us to see the answers
to questions like,
"What about combustion?"
"What about fluid dynamics?"
Now, sleeping is delightful.
My favorite -- I mean, you could be
upside down, right side up --
my favorite: curled up
in a little ball and floating freely.
Laundry? Nope.
We load our dirty clothes
into an empty supply ship
and send it off into space.
The bathroom.
Everyone wants to know.
It's hard to understand,
so I made a little video,
because I wanted kids to understand
that the principle of vacuum saves the day
and that just a gentle breeze
helps everything go
where it is supposed to.
Well, in real life it does.
(Laughter)
Recycling? Of course.
So we take our urine, we store it,
we filter it and then we drink it.
And it's actually delicious.
(Laughter)
Sitting around the table,
eating food that looks bad
but actually tastes pretty good.
But it's the gathering around
the table that's important,
I think both in space and on Earth,
because that's what cements
a crew together.
For me, music was a way to stay connected
to the rest of the world.
I played a duet between Earth and space
with Ian Anderson of Jethro Tull
on the 50th anniversary
of human spaceflight.
Connecting to family was so important.
I talked with my family almost every day
the whole time I was up there,
and I would actually read books to my son
as a way for us just to be together.
So important.
Now, when the space station
would go over Massachusetts,
my family would run outside,
and they would watch the brightest star
sailing across the sky.
And when I looked down,
I couldn't see my house,
but it meant a lot to me to know
that the people I loved the most
were looking up while I was looking down.
So the space station, for me, is the place
where mission and magic come together.
The mission, the work are vital steps
in our quest to go further than our planet
and imperative for understanding
sustainability here on Earth.
I loved being a part of that,
and if I could have taken
my family with me,
I never would have come home.
And so my view from the station showed me
that we are all from the same place.
We all have our roles to play.
Because, the Earth is our ship.
Space is our home.
And we are the crew of Spaceship Earth.
Thank you.
(Applause)